There are plenty of applications that should be built as a spot, and you could say for the last 10 years, people defaulted to building spas when they shouldn't have, and now there's backlash for that, like, things that should have been websites were built as spas.
I'm headed somewhere with this, I think. Hang on.
[upbeat music]
You look tan.
I am tan.
Do you like it?
I do. Yeah, I mean, this is my summer look.
I mean, this is every year.
It's not just because I want to vacation.
It's like, we go to the pool and we have a community pool.
We've been there every day since it opened, since we got back.
Are your kids tan?
Yeah, they... Oh, you've seen my boys.
They've got very, like, white hair.
So they look really tan, but I mean, they do pretty well in the sun.
My wife, actually, she's, like, looks like she's from Ireland.
She's, like, red-headed, very fair skin, but she actually handles the sun better than I do.
Like, I'm the worst burner of the family.
Yeah, well, I witnessed that.
Yeah, no, I got really burnt, yeah, when we were in Florida.
I always do, and then I think after one good sunburn every year, I kind of, like, settle into a tan, which is probably terrible for your skin.
I don't know, I don't wear sunscreen, I'm awful, I'm probably going to die of skin cancer.
It's going to be really sad when I do.
How sad, sorry, how sad will it be when I actually die from skin cancer?
And we, we play this back in my funeral or something.
Okay, sorry.
I wouldn't play this back in your funeral.
I don't know if I'm going to be in charge of your funeral.
I know why I said that.
Am I in charge of your... Sure, why not?
I feel like you need to give me specific instructions for...
Because you're going to want really good production quality for your funeral, so...
Oh, for sure, yeah.
Do you need to produce it and I'll just make sure it happens?
We can rehearse it ahead of time and then after I die.
Okay, cool, good plan.
Okay, what were you going to say?
You're going into something much less unhinged.
No, I mean, I was going to say, I also got my first sunburn ever in my whole life.
Oh, yeah, you said, you said in Florida, you can't get sunburned.
And then you got sunburned.
We did, I guess we set out there a lot longer than I realized.
We were just kind of like, when you're in the water in the ocean, you just assume the sun can't get you.
I think it's okay. I'm not a scientist.
It can, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, you're all, like, I got burned just a little bit on the top of, like, my shoulders.
Like a strip and a little bit, like, down by my waist.
And I literally was like, I was at home because I didn't feel it that day.
The next day, I was like, Liz, I have mosquito bites on my back.
Like, I'm so itchy.
Like, what is this?
Like, I didn't... And I'm like, when I scratch it, they're like, kind of burns.
Yeah, she was just laughing so hard being like, "Hi, you got sunburned."
Oh, I love it.
I love that you've never been sunburned until that moment.
Not bad considering I wore zero sunscreen that whole day, and we were out for, like, many, many hours, so...
Yeah, I think I even put sunscreen on, but I still, I don't, I hate sunscreen.
The whole thing just feels like a scam.
It never actually works for me, but it'll work in random, like, where I was wiping it off on my, like, belly,
because I just, I had some left on my fingers.
That spot, I'll have little finger marks where it worked, but none of the stuff on my shoulders,
like, I don't know if I was just out there too long, and maybe there's just no way to put enough sunscreen on,
but it's just so, it's so bad.
I hate the whole experience.
It never feels like you're getting it all over you.
It was kids that's sometimes worse, because you're constantly stressed about their skin too,
and I got three sets of skin you're worried about.
It's just a, it's a bad deal.
I'm actually going to a dermatologist, because I think I've got a couple spots on my nose that look scary,
according to WebMD.
Like, cancer stuff.
Serious.
Didn't have dermatologists out in the Ozarks.
Oh, my God, Dax, come on.
We wear shoes too, believe it or not.
Well, you have one dermatologist is that there?
I think there's three in Springfield.
OK, spring field. OK.
How many dermatologists do you have?
Do you have it memorized in Miami?
Do you just know?
But within walking distance, probably more than one.
Are you within walking?
Well, how far can you walk?
I mean, I think it's like a 15, 20 minute radius, I would say.
OK. Yeah, interesting. Come at me.
You're a number of dermatologists, an interesting flex.
I've not heard that one.
You're going to need a dermatologist with all the sun exposure.
Yeah, I know I know.
I think I have some things I need to check out to just not go outside.
Is that the problem?
Is that why you'd never gotten a sunburn?
Like, why did you never got a sunburn?
I'm outside all the time, outside all day.
I think so when I go to the beat, I think I said, see, when I go to the beach,
because because we go pretty often, we don't spend
like six hours of the beach.
Usually we'll spend like two hours and like go get lunch
and kind of get more casual things.
So I don't think I'm like in direct beach sun for over two hours.
That might be my limit.
I think I'm there for like many, many hours.
No, it's a good, we shouldn't go out in the middle of the day.
Like, I don't think even with sunscreen, it's a good idea when the sun's the hottest.
Yeah, it's true.
Go out in the evening.
Anyway, let's talk about something other than sunburns.
Yes.
So I wanted to talk about something.
I had a topic and I tweeted it just now teasing it.
I retweeted that and I didn't even read it.
I still don't know what it is.
So it's about rep.
I want to talk about replicash a little bit.
Ooh, OK, because it continues to evolve.
It continues to get really useful.
And it's and with, you know, I'm working on the C console right now.
It's using replicash heavily for pretty much everything.
And it's incredible, the level of like UX impact it's having on the quality of our
product and just how good it feels to use a product.
And I'm just like, why does nobody know about this?
Why is nobody using it?
Why are we obsessed with all these other things that have such marginal impact
on on UX and in performance?
So I just want to like show it a little bit.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, OK, so I obviously know all about replicash being your friend.
I've heard about it all the time, but for the people on the show that listen,
that they don't know what replicash is.
Could you just give us like a 30,000 foot view and then let's dive into the specific stuff?
Yeah.
So replicash is a primarily a library on the client that runs on the front end
in the browser and it handles data syncing with your back end.
The thing that makes it unique is it's built around the model of sinking a lot
of data to the client locally so that more operations can happen entirely locally.
And of course, from things like mutations, it handles optimistic updates and all of that.
And what's beautiful about it is it enables these crazy real time.
So one enables crazy real time applications to so much of your data is local.
That a lot of stuff that you normally have to go to the server for for a round trip.
You can just do locally.
So things like fuzzy search, like, you know, command K bar, like jumping to things like that.
And so it makes everything really, really fast.
But what's great about it is if you look at a bunch of other solutions that are similar,
and there's different solutions like this for a long time, they're all way more complicated.
And replicash is really, really simple and it has a very different architecture
to everything else that exists that kind of allows it to be a lot simpler
and it actually makes it possible to use this stuff in practice.
OK, so it's like the offline first kind of stuff.
Like, is that a different concept?
Yeah, I think it is a little bit different.
Because so replicash can be used to support offline applications.
But it's not like they just haven't matured that part of it as much.
Actually, the laser lease, they've made it a lot better.
But the offline stuff is it kind of has a pathway to that, but it's not really the focus.
Because I think what they thought about was so far, we've treated this category
of application as very specific, like, OK, you want application that runs fully offline
or you want application where there's no state and there's just a bunch of people
connected to each other that are like seeking state within each other.
And there are a bunch of solutions in that in that category, but that's like not most apps.
So I doubt most of you have built apps that need to be offline first
or like are completely peer to peer, right?
Yeah, right.
But I think those ideas get conflated when we think about real time or like local first.
So I think replicash is in the category of local first.
And I think this is becoming a category that's popping up a lot more.
I actually saw like there's a whole like local first meetup that even exists now.
Oh, wow.
Where you basically try to build applications that can run locally first
for as many features as possible.
Of course, some things you might still need to go to the server for, but there's a lot
that can be built in this way.
So replicash really focuses on this local first mentality.
And so many applications, I think, fall under the category of working really well.
The application that I always talk about linear as being like the best example
of an incredible web app pushing the bar on what's possible on web today.
Linear is a local first app.
And that's why it's so fast and so amazing to use.
Plus, of course, all the details to you actually paid attention to.
And if you go to the replicash homepage, is this a funny experience for me?
Because for a while, I was like, OK, how do I recreate linear?
How do I have a stack that can let me build something as good as linear?
I was like researching this for a while.
I landed on the replicash homepage and their demo app is a recreation of linear.
So replicash basically took a linear and was like, yeah, how do we make it
so more people can build stuff like this?
And they built a general tool for that.
So how does it fit in?
Like, I feel like the whole landscape is shifting toward the server.
Yeah.
What UX wins do you get if you go the replicash route?
As opposed to like SSR and doing stuff on the server.
Yeah.
So SSR is built.
And I'm going to keep saying this to keep saying my whole life.
I think so.
And I'm never going to stop saying it because no one's just keeps
continuing to think SSR is built for applications, not applications.
It's built for websites where people go and leave right away.
That's kind of how I think about it.
Like, yeah, yeah, you don't expect them to explore every single page of your app.
They might come in and look at a single page and then leave some short sessions.
Yeah.
So it's not worth sinking a bunch of stuff down to the client.
They're not going to really be around for that long.
So for anything in that category, e-commerce sites, websites, just kind
of one off things, yes, don't listen to anything I'm saying because it's not relevant.
But for productivity applications, for things people have up all day to do their
work, you do want to sink a lot of stuff down to the client because they're going
to be around for the while.
It's worth that initial cost.
Yeah.
And plus, initial cost is literally the first time they load the app.
From there, it's like kind of incremental sync.
So whatever changes on the server, the next time you show up needs to be synced.
It's worth sinking all of that because then a bunch of operations can happen locally.
Right.
So in the SST console, we sync all of your resources and like all the
metadata for the resources to the front end.
That way, when you open up the command K bar and you type in, let's say you're
looking for a function that's mounted at a certain URL route.
So you can go look at the logs, you can type in just the URL of the function.
And that search happens locally.
And literally with every keystroke, instantly with like no perception of legacy,
the command bar is updating with the results of your search.
And the SST console, that's like a small set, because you're not going to have
a ton of resources.
You're plugging up like even the biggest cases, like sub 500 resources, sub 1000
resources, maybe, but for for Boomi, which is the other project that we're
coming up with, Liz, we've done like searching on 50,000 records and still been
instant.
Wow.
Yeah.
How much data?
Like, what is that like down in that?
I mean, like you said, it's worth it because people are shaking around.
But is it like megs of data?
Yeah, it is.
So on the first time a user gets added, so in the Boomi case, if you invite a new
user because they're a new employee, they join the first time they load the app,
it's going to be several seconds of waiting because we need to query all that
and queue it up and bundle it in the right way.
Uh, and I get streamed down, but after that, it's all incremental updates.
So it's only as much data syncing as your business is changing.
Um, and that's all happening in real time and reflecting right in front of you.
Um, so yeah, it's really not a lot.
It's a couple of seconds waiting up front for like instant.
Every page you navigate to knows we have, we have zero spinners in Boomi at all.
Is we haven't had to build a spinner cloud at all for anything.
Cause everything you load is instant.
Uh, well, you can kind of compare it to is in the RSC model or like in like the
traditional model, you might have like a cash is progressively built up.
So like you might go to one page, it might load.
You might go to the next page and uploads.
And if you go back and forward again, it's instant and you cause you, cause like
stuff has been built up.
Yeah.
It's like that, but without having to like explore, it's like that from the
beginning.
So it's like everything is fully warmed all the time.
So, uh, it's an incredible technology and it's just not very used.
Like I don't see a lot of people bringing it up.
I will say it is a little bit challenging to learn.
Yeah.
So that was my next question is like the author time experience.
Like what does the, your code look like with all this stuff?
Yeah.
So I actually think the initial setup is a hard thing to learn.
Um, so right now they have a service that solution called reflect as well.
So you don't have to do any of that.
You can kind of just plug it into effectively a back ends of service thing.
I don't use that because I want to have like a normal application and replica.
It's just like a thing that I'm adding on top of a very normal application.
That's built on top of SST and plan scale, et cetera.
Um, so there's an initial cost of understanding the sync protocol and there are
certain things you didn't make sure you're doing correctly to like implement
the sync correctly.
Uh, there's a lot of when you come to distribute systems, real-time sync,
there's a lot of like edge cases where, uh, you know, data doesn't make it to one
place and not something else.
Things that made it and then you have a desync.
They lay out very clear steps on how to do this.
It might be a little challenging if you're not familiar with the
previous system stuff.
Um, but it's really not super hard.
Like within a couple of days, you can probably have implemented.
But once you have it implemented, it's so easy.
Like from there, you just have these mutations.
You can send up, you apply them optimistically on the front end and you
apply them for real on the back end.
Uh, and then any issues that come up, like there was an error,
things have to be rolled back.
It's all automatically handled by Replicash.
So I think there's some initial setup learning curve, um, but you
know, ST consoles open source.
So you can just take whatever we have there if you want to use it.
Um, and then from there, like the, the other time experience is fantastic.
I even added like an end-to-end type safety layer on there.
So it feels a lot like TRPC.
So yeah, it's been, it's been, it's been amazing.
And I think more people should look into it.
Yeah, it seems like if you're building an app, like you're building a spa
or like some long lived thing, you should always be doing it.
It's like leaning into that to get the best out of that, right?
Is there any reason you're building an app?
You shouldn't use this local first approach.
Are there downsides?
Yeah.
So I think it comes down to understanding the working set of data that a user needs.
Uh, if this working set is massive, like it's in, let's say it's over
100 megabytes, it probably doesn't make sense to use replica cash because
thinking all that to the client is maybe too much.
Uh, but I think very few applications fit into this, like even something
like linear, you can imagine that, oh yeah, as a company, you know, makes
issues and like over time, they might have like millions of issues.
But the way linear treats it is no, the working set of data is just any issue
that's open or well, they keep closed issues around for like a week.
So your working set of issues is never going to be like infinitely
growing.
Yeah.
So anything where you can fit the working set into a reasonable size,
you should do this because there's no downside at all.
Um, for stuff that's more like analytical or like you're like looking
across big data sets and even in Boomi, uh, we have like the day-to-day
work flows, which are like a small working set of data.
Then you have like admin workflows.
We're looking at like reports analytics.
Uh, that is currently powered by Replicash, but it's starting to get
to a size where it doesn't make sense.
So that part of our app might still be a traditional server side thing,
but it's okay because people aren't touching that every single day.
That's something they look at every once in a while.
The part of your app where people are using every single day, every
single hour, that tends to be a small working set.
So most things can, can fit into this model.
Yeah.
Okay.
So I have a related thought to all this.
And like as you're discussing all this stuff, it, I realized that like these
topics have kind of fallen out of favor, or they're just not talked about as
much because of all the RSC stuff and like Astro and like every, it's
like the trend is moving server side.
And I feel like talking about how to make a spa better feels it for
some reason, so off topic, which is dumb because there are plenty of
applications that should be built as a spa.
And you could say for the last 10 years, people defaulted to building
spas when they shouldn't have, and now there's backlash for that, like
things that should have been websites were built as spas.
I'm headed somewhere with this, I think.
Hang on.
So that was the default.
We have all these new covers coming into the field building spas with react
that should have been a website, like it just shouldn't be client-side rendered.
And now we're shifting to this default world where everything is like
multiple pages, not a spa.
Okay.
And now you're going to have people building what should be a spa with those
technologies, so people should be using react and replicash or whatever,
solidjs, whatever, to build their spa.
And instead they're going to use RSCs and we're going to have the exact opposite
problem we've had the last decade.
Did I land that?
You know, that's exactly right.
I think there is just, there is just no global default, but people always
operate as there is, as there is.
And I think what's sad about this one, I don't think people are going to
realize, like at least with the one you incorrectly use a spa, it was so obvious
that it was a bad choice because like we've all used apps.
Like it's always be something like you're like trying to book a flight and
there's like a million spinners and like it's just like, why is this like this?
It's very obvious that it sucks.
But I think in the reverse case, it's kind of like it actually feels okay
because you're used to it.
So I don't think anyone is going to think, oh, this is like a bad use of RSCs or SSR
because it's still going to feel terrible.
It's going to be obviously terrible.
They're just going to be a class of application that continues to be like
magical and mysterious because people are like, Oh, like, how do they do that stuff?
And yeah, yeah.
And they're using the local stuff.
Yeah, they're so few.
Like I think of all applications I use, I think I always list them.
It's air table, linear and superhuman are the three that I use that are like
so clearly a million times better than any other app I use, but nobody's
copying them for some reason.
Yeah.
So why, why is this?
Why has this been slow to adopt?
What's replication's marketing problem?
I have a funny theory that is going to be.
See if I can get this out.
You better do better than I did.
Sorry.
You guys said before, and you might have heard me say this before, but
if you are someone that builds an e-commerce website
and you're like a pro at building e-commerce website, you're like one of the best people
in the world that does this.
How much can you possibly make doing that?
Not a ton.
There's definitely a ceiling there of how much money you can make.
Just doing literally that job, right?
Yeah, but you can make a ton of money by founding Vercel and making it.
So a bunch of other people can, you know, can kind of have your skills
without having to put in as much work.
Yeah.
So like a Vercel for like the SSR world exists.
Like there's a company focused on educating people and making people
aware of this stuff and having people build in this way.
The flip side, if you're someone that's an expert at billions of local
first SPA's, you're just going to build linear and be a billionaire.
You're not going to go like go and spend your time like doing this other thing, right?
So the fact that Replicash even exists is a miracle.
So Aaron Goodman is like is a founder of it.
And he made Grease Monkey.
I don't know if he used Grease Monkey back in the day.
What is it?
It was like before Chrome extension really existed, you can like inject JavaScript
and override stuff.
Oh, that does sound familiar.
Yeah.
I don't know if I really used it, but I know you're talking about now.
And he eventually ended up working for Chrome and like building the Chrome
extension stuff.
And now he's working on this completely unrelated thing.
So it's like a miracle that someone is focused on his problem.
Yeah, because everyone else is an expert on this has already like built a massive
business that they're just like, they're not even on Twitter.
Like they're not even like talking at all because they're just like, we're so
successful and rich, we don't have to do we don't have to do anything.
And you think the key to that is that they built these really amazing web apps.
Like that was their business's success.
Yeah, like linear entered a market that is the most like fragmented
saturated market in the world.
Like every engineer is like, I have an idea for our product management app.
Like that's like the default thing, right?
Yeah.
They entered there and just killed it just through the quality of the thing they
built, like compared like the status quo was Jira pretty much Jira's like the
slowest thing in the world.
Yeah.
Same thing with superhuman like what you like aren't even an email provider.
You're just like a layer on top of Gmail.
But all you do is make stuff faster.
Like also also people are paying.
I'm paying like 20 bucks a month for it, which is like crazy.
So this is super powerful.
I mean, this is like this idea that you could just come in and disrupt an
industry by just having a really good product.
Well, yeah, why don't more people do that?
Why are there so many bad products?
I don't understand the hold up.
Is it that hard to learn?
You said there's some initial investment.
No, it's just, I just think it's not well.
And it says, what I want to talk about is I want to get people curious.
I think more people need to be curious about this.
Uh, we are so used to stuff that is slow that we don't even think twice.
And once you start using these like magical products, you start to wonder
why isn't everything like this?
Like I go to GitHub.
Yeah.
Because GitHub so much, I work on open source stuff.
I'm always in there looking at issues, looking at PRs.
Every time I click on something, there's a delay and a spinner and
surprise to them in it all day.
Like I get hub, okay.
Maybe you don't sink every repo in the world to my machine locally, but
sink the repos I'm working on actively locally.
Sink all the issues and call it pull requests.
Um, I should be able to switch between them really quickly.
And they're starting to do this a little bit, like their new, uh, like
directory explorers, like a little bit more in this direction.
Like I'm seeing that be a lot faster.
But yeah, like anything that is a B2B tool, a productivity tool, anything
with a working set is small.
Like this should really be the default.
Yeah, it should not be SSR, RSC, any of that stuff.
It should really be do a ton on the client.
And it's why people love native apps, right?
A lot of native apps do a lot on the client.
Right.
So can we do like, can we speak about this?
And like, like how people would be like Uber, but for groceries, can we be like
linear, but for GitHub?
Yeah, exactly.
I've seen people do this already, actually.
Oh, like communicated it that way.
Like, I think this, this, there's something, I think actually is from someone
that used to work with linear.
So it makes sense.
I forgot what I forgot what it was.
I think it's going to note taking tool something.
Yeah.
I mean, just like, could someone build GitHub, but build a better web app and
actually make a dent.
Oh, yeah.
Like a different interface to GitHub.
That actually, uh, okay.
So here's the thing.
Replication needs like very strong control of the server.
So you can't do it externally, unfortunately.
But wait, what?
I didn't even understand this sentence.
Do what externally?
Well, I meant, like, I couldn't build a better front end for GitHub without
coordination from GitHub.
Oh, no, I didn't build a new GitHub.
Like, could somebody actually disrupt?
I think they're like too big to disrupt.
Okay.
So there's limits.
There's other things in that way.
I'm learning the rules here, but it's like, there's just stuff that we use every day
and we don't think about.
Um, like sometimes some, so I, so I have for some of these developer tools, like, uh,
uh, somebody's SaaS products, there's the work instead of data is so small.
They have a concept of a project and it might have like some configuration.
Like why are there any loaders all?
Um, even something like, take something like Cal.com, right?
Depart where you're managing your own settings, your own configuration.
The working set is low, just your own configuration.
I bet that's like less.
That's probably a tiny amount of data that should always be synced, synced locally.
So yeah, it's a great thing to explore.
Like I almost think of it.
Like if I am building something that is not public facing, it's like, you need to sign up
for is behind a login wall.
My default is going to be this until my working set out grows.
Then I'll like, you know, refactor that out to be server powered.
Um, so do you have any open source repos that you've built, like, or any of your apps
that you've built with this open source where I can look at it and seal your.
Yeah.
So the new ST console, which is just at our GitHub slash console, uh, is built with
replicash, yeah, like I said, it's, I built a little bit of a layer on top to get
like some of the type safety stuff I like.
Uh, I'd love to like have some nicer patterns emerge out of this.
And once they do, uh, I might like package that up into its own library.
Okay.
I'm just going to look now.
I'm, I'm sold, like, I'm, I'm sold.
I'm going to build apps this way right after I get done building a layer of L.A.
I'll build one like this.
Well, you know, I mean, I wasn't joking.
You know, I know you're not joking.
The level I take you seriously, though, it's not that I'm joking.
It's that I just, uh, I'm flaky.
I believe you think you're serious.
Yes.
Oh, okay.
We should end this episode.
This has been good.
Cool.
So yeah.
All right.
See you.
[BLANK_AUDIO]